docs: update Academy deploying section to use .actor directory structure (#2514)
apify/apify-docs: sources/academy/platform/deploying_your_code/input_schema.md

---
title: How to write Actor input schema

> description: Learn to generate a user interface on the Apify platform for your Actor's input using the input schema file inside the .actor directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn to define your Actor's input UI on the Apify platform with an INPUT_SCHEMA.json file stored inside the .actor configuration directory.
```

sidebar_position: 2
slug: /deploying-your-code/input-schema
---

> **Learn to generate a user interface on the Apify platform for your Actor's input using the input schema file inside the `.actor` directory.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Learn to define your Actor's input UI on the Apify platform with an `INPUT_SCHEMA.json` file stored inside the `.actor` configuration directory.**
```

---

> Writing an [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) for an Actor is optional, but recommended. The Apify platform reads [`.actor/INPUT_SCHEMA.json`](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) and generates a user interface for entering input into your Actor, which makes it easier for non-developers and developers alike to configure and understand the inputs your Actor accepts. Because of this, we'll write an input schema for our example Actor.

Author: ```suggestion
Writing an [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) for an Actor is optional, but recommended. The Apify platform reads input schema and generates a user interface for entering input into your Actor, which makes it easier for non-developers and developers alike to configure and understand the inputs your Actor accepts. Because of this, we'll write an input schema for our example Actor.
```

@TC-MO the path can be something else than `.actor/INPUT_SCHEMA.json`

Reviewer: You're right. I was going with the happy path example, but more accurate phrasing wins here.

> Though writing an [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) for an Actor is not a required step, it's definitely an ideal one. The Apify platform reads the input schema from the [`.actor` directory](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) and generates a user interface for entering input into your Actor, which makes it significantly easier for non-developers (and even developers) to configure and understand the inputs your Actor can receive. Because of this, we'll be writing an input schema for our example Actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing an [input schema](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition/input-schema) for an Actor is optional, but recommended. The Apify platform reads [`.actor/INPUT_SCHEMA.json`](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) and generates a user interface for entering input into your Actor, which makes it easier for non-developers and developers alike to configure and understand the inputs your Actor accepts. Because of this, we'll write an input schema for our example Actor.
```

## Schema title & description {#title-and-description}

> Inside the `.actor` directory at the root of our project, we'll create a file named **INPUT_SCHEMA.json** (so the full path is `.actor/INPUT_SCHEMA.json`) and start writing the first part of the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `.actor` directory at the root of our project, we'll create `INPUT_SCHEMA.json` and start writing the first part of the schema.
```

> :::tip .actor directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Actor configuration directory
```

> If you don't have a `.actor` directory yet, create one. This directory contains your Actor's configuration files, including `actor.json`, `INPUT_SCHEMA.json`, `Dockerfile`, and `README.md`. For more details, see the [Actor definition](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `.actor` directory at the root of your project. It holds your Actor's configuration: `actor.json`, `INPUT_SCHEMA.json`, `Dockerfile`, and `README.md`. See [Actor definition](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) for full reference.
```

> If you don't have a `.actor` directory yet, create one. This directory contains your Actor's configuration files, including `actor.json`, `INPUT_SCHEMA.json`, `Dockerfile`, and `README.md`. For more details, see the [Actor definition](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `.actor` directory at the root of your project. It holds your Actor's configuration: `actor.json`, `INPUT_SCHEMA.json`, `Dockerfile`, and `README.md`. See [Actor definition](/platform/actors/development/actor-definition) for the full reference.
```
